Sharp SM83
==========

## General Information

The Sharp SM83 is a CPU core designed by Sharp and in use from at least 1989 until at least 2008. According to various catalogues available from Sharp for the years 1990 and 1996, it appears to originally have been designed for use in embedded applications, for home appliances such as air conditioners. It can be found in the Sharp SM831x line of microcontrollers. 

However, it's best known use is in the Nintendo Gameboy line of handheld game consoles, as the core found in the SOC, known as the LR35902, DMG-CPU, and a few other names.

The SM83 is a two-stage pipelined CPU design, with a fetch stage, and an execute stage. In most cases, the pipelining can be ignored. However, it can cause a few noticable differences in instruction timing on these conditions:

- Hardware Reset
- During jump instructions
- When fetch would overlap with memory access

The pipelining reportedly also affects behavior of the OAM bug in Gameboy systems, and it may be required to accurately emulate the pipelining in order to accurately emulate the OAM bug.

The SM83 can address up to 64KiB of data, and has many similarities to the Intel 8080, and to a smaller degree, the Zilog Z80.

## Registers

The SM83 core inherits from the 8080 a total of 6 general purpose 8-bit registers (B C D E H L) which can be paired into 3 general purpose 16 bit registers (BC DE HL). It also has an 8-bit accumulator register (A), and 4 bit flag register extended to 8 bits (F). These registers can also be paired to appear as a 16 bit register (AF). The SM83 has only four flag bits, unlike the 8080 and Z80.

# Instruction set

The overall instruction set is remarkably similar to that of the Intel 8080, but with a few notable changes. It has no I/O addressing space, and instead memory maps the IO bus. It also adds several useful load instructions, as well as a CB prefix for bit manipulation instructions, identical to what can be found on the Zilog Z80.